So the next thing is basically, we wanna
start hooking things up to the routes and
getting everything configured.
I typically like to start with the route
and then work on the handlers.
I think some people start with
the handlers and work back to the routes.
I'm just gonna go through
the routes of the handlers,
it's a lot easier for me to think.
So let's start thinking about the routes.
Who here has ever heard of the word like,
or the term CRUD, C-R-U-D?
Yeah, you've heard, what's CRUD?
>> It's an acronym that I actually
find to be confusing because I think
it makes more sense just call it
what it is but what create update or
create read update
>> And delete.
>> Yeah, it stands for create,
read, update, and delete.
And that's basically if
you think about any app
you've ever used in your
life other than some weird.
For most part, most apps are just,
you're either creating something,
you're reading something, you're updating
something, or you're deleting somehing.
Pretty much every software you've ever
interacted with does those four things,
some do them all, some only do some.
But, that's basically what an API is for
is to enable,
some type of UI to be able to do CRUD.
So, we're gonna write the routes, for
our CRUD against the different
resources that we created.
The resources in this case are the things
like the models that we made,
the products, the updates,
the users, those are resources.
And we wanna be able to do
CRUD operations on them.
So we wanna create products.
We wanna update products.
We wanna read products.
We wanna delete products.
We wanna create updates.
We wanna update updates.
We wanna read updates.
We wanna delete updates, right?
So we wanna do CRUD on
the resources that we create it.
And for each one of those operations,
we need a different route.
So we need a different method,
path combination for
each one of those CRUD operations for
every single resource, right.
So an example of that would be,
if I wanted to get one product by
a given ID, I would have a get request.
For whatever my URL is slash product
slash the ID of that product, or
if I wanted to get all products, it would
just be a GET request to slash product.
Or maybe I wanna create a product,
it would be a post request to product.
Or if I wanna update a product, it'd
be a PUT request for product/ID, right.
If I wanna delete one, it would be
a DELETE request to product ID.
And I would do the same thing for all
other resources I would expose on my API.
And that's all the CRUD operations.
Any questions on that?
This is following something called REST.
I talked about REST before.
That's what REST is.
REST is,
you have these resources, you gotta be
able to operate on them using CRUD.
We say if you use this method like get,
post, put, delete with this way of making
URLs the name of the resource slash some
ID if you have to find the specific one.
Then everyone should
know how to use your API.
It never works out that way because
relationships just kills this.
As soon as you have one resource that
needs another resource like we do in our
app, then it's, well, if someone asks for
a product, but a product has updates too,
we send the updates back to.
Well, yeah, then it's, well,
let them ask for it on a query string.
And then you're just creating your
own query language at that point.
So it was, REST works up until 2005 and
then it doesn't work anymore.
So, but we're still gonna use it because
mostly everything is based of REST anyway.
So, it's nice to know it.
Okay, so let's create some routes.
First thing we're gonna do, is we're
gonna create a new file router.ts, right.
Beside a source, so, let's do that.
And then what we're gonna do,
is we're gonna create a new router,
we'll talk about that.
And we're pretty much, if you see I have
all the routes here for all the CRUD
operations that we're gonna do for
all of our resources, so, let's do that.
So, I'm gonna go in here,
I'm going to say router.ts like that,
I'm gonna import express from express
I can actually just do,
I'm just gonna do a named import for
Router, but a capital R like that.
And I was gonna say const.
Let's just say router,
lowercase = Router, uppercase, like that.
So espresso was made a while ago when
people were just still trying to figure
out how they wanted to make libraries.
So this might seem kinda weird to have
something with a capital letter in it and
then also not see the word
new in front of it.
It's not a constructor function
it's just a regular function, but
they decided to make it capitalized.
People were weird back then.
They didn't know what they were doing.
But ,yeah, so
we're gonna make a new router, okay.
A router in express is this, so
up until now we've used app, right.
So, where were we?
We did like app.get, okay.
The difference between app and
a router is one thing.
The app is the entire API.
A router is just like a sub part of it.
So you can have different branches in your
API that have their own configuration,
their own options, their own stack
that merges with the global one.
So the app will always be the global one,
but the routers can be sub routers,
sub apps that have their
own configuration.
So we're gonna make an app or we're gonna
make a router here called router and
that's gonna be our API.
And the reason we're doing that
is we're gonna have one or
two routes that don't share
the same configuration is this.
For instance, everything that's gonna be
here is probably gonna be authenticated.
You're gonna need to pass
me a token to use it.
We're going to lock these routes down.
But, we still need to allow users
to be able to sign up and sign in.
Imagine an app saying you can't sign
up unless you're already signed in.
That wouldn't make any sense.
But that what would happen if
we added those routes here, so
we're gonna make a separate sub router for
everything that needs to be authenticated.
And it will have something else for things
that don't need to be authenticated.
That way we don't have to do if
statements in our code somewhere like,
if it's this route, don't check for
auth, that will be gross.
So we need to separate them out.
Okay, so
let's make the stuff our resources.
So I'm gonna say router and
let's start talking about CRUD.
So I'm gonna say get,
request for /product.
So this means I wanna get all
the products, so I'm just gonna do that.
And I'm not gonna put
anything in these handlers,
we're gonna come back
to these handlers soon.
Wanna copy that?
So that's for the get all the products.
Now I wanna be able to get one product so
I can say id and
express when you do something
like this like :id.
First, I can put colon whatever
the hell I want it doesn't matter.
This just means that this is a variable.
This means that, I don't know what
the value of this is gonna be and
it doesn't matter I'm making a route for
a get request/product / anything
else that comes after it.
I don't care what it is,
I'm calling it id, so
when I reference it later in my code I
know that it's called id, and I'll show
you where we're gonna reference it, but
you can call this whatever you want.
It's just saying like,
this is what's called a route parameter.
It's a parameter, it's dynamic.
We don't know what it's gonna.
We just wanna catch everything
that looks like this.
It's a URL that has
something after product.
So we got that.
Now we wanna be able to
update a product by given id.
We can't update a product unless we know
what products update so we need an id.
We also want to be able
to create a product,
you don't need an id to create a product
because you don't have the id yet,
you're creating it so
that doesn't need an id.
You just post to products to create
an id or to create a product.
And then lastly, we can delete
a products and we will need an id for
that because how do you know what products
to delete if you don't have the id for it?
All right, so
those are all the products stuff.
And then it's mostly the same for
everything else, right.
So I can just copy all these.
And let's do the one for updates.
Paste that down here and I'm just gonna
change all this to update, like that.
I say mostly the same
because it is until it isn't.
We'll probably have to go back and
like, that doesn't make sense.
We don't want people to, I don't know,
delete updates for some reason.
I don't know, some things won't make
sense depending on whatever experience
you're trying to enable.
And then for the last one, we have
the Update Points, Update Points I guess.
And same thing,
now replace all the products with
updatepoints all lowercase intentionally.
I typically don't like camel case in URLs
because I think it's just so annoying to
write that in the URL in my opinion, so
obviously it's keep them all lowercase.
I also don't do underscores in my URL
because I also think it's annoying
to write.
So I'll just keep them all lowercase.
I don't mind writing and administering.
I just hate writing them in the URL.
To me it seems junky,
I'll use someone's URL for the API and
there's a lowercase in it or
a camel case I'm like,
I don't wanna use it now,
I don't know it's kinda.
>> When would you use patch versus put?
>> Yeah, that's a great question.
When would we use patch versus put?
So technically, well first of all,
you can just use Git for anything,
you don't have to use any of this stuff.
This is just what's recommended
if you following REST.
But technically, if you're following REST,
put and patch the difference is put,
for instance, if I was going to
make a put request to update.
Whatever I sent up on that request,
whatever data I sent up would replace
the entire update in a database
with whatever I sent up,
it will get completely replaced.
The only thing that will stay
the same would be the id.
Everything else will get replaced.
Patch doesn't do that, it will just only
update the properties that you sent up and
keep everything else the same,
so that's the differences.
Put completely replaces patches, but
I just use almost never replace anything.
So I'll just use put as patch and
I just don't use patch because I
don't wanna replace all that stuff.
I didn't have the clients and
all that stuff up I don't know and
then validate all that stuff
I don't wanna do that.
So, I actually just don't use patch,
I just put as patch I just
never replace anything.
>> Would you recommend gRPC over REST?
>> Actually do like
gRPC it's pretty clean.
I would recommend using gRPC if your
API was serving the purposes this one.
As in, it's only gonna be used internally,
for a client that you also work on.
So if it's, we're making an API for
this front end app that we're making.
We're making an API for
this mobile app that we're making.
Yeah, gRPC all the way.
I don't think I would use REST for
that, it doesn't make sense.
I don't need it to be broken up per
resource like this because what happens
is, if you do it the way that
we're doing it out with REST.
And then you go build out your
dashboard that's using this,
there's gonna be a page on it that needs
updates, it also needs update points,
it also needs products and
it also needs users.
And because the way that we designed this,
there'll be five different API calls,
right.
Whereas gRPC would be, no I'm just gonna
just call this one function that gets
every single thing in the exact
way that I need it for
this page,
because it's never going to change.
Because it's for the app and
if it does change, I can change it,
because I also build the front of that.
So, I think gRPC is great for
that, but it's not great for
this is an external API that developers
are gonna consume inside their app.
Okay, yeah, maybe gRPC is not it for
them because it's too specialized,
you don't know what their use
cases are for consuming your API.
So you have to be generic like this
with REST and if you're gonna monetize
your API kinda benefits you to make
them make more API calls, I guess.
Yeah, good question.
Yeah, [INAUDIBLE].
>> Well, I've heard of tRPC, is that
just the type-safe version of gRPC?
>> Yeah, tRPC is something new.
It's yeah,
it's just like the TypeScript version.
It kind of basically does what Prisma
does with the generation of the client
except for it doesn't need to generate it,
it just does it automatically
using the power of TypeScript.
So there's no step in between of a command
you have to run to get the type checking,
it just works out of the box and
you can get the same thing with GraphQL.
But you have to run a command, you have to
take my GraphQL schema and output these
TypeScript types that I can import into my
react app and get those type check data.
TRPC is like we just do that for
you without having to type anything
through the magical powers of TypeScript.
It's actually be on me.
I don't know how they do that in
TypeScript, so, but it is pretty powerful.
I've tried it before,
I think they had to sacrifice a lot of
developer experience in
order to enable that.
So I like that it works magically, but
I don't like using it
it's not pleasant to use.
Is like using RxJS it's like I like it,
it's cool but
it's so hard to use, why would I use this?
So, yeah, but maybe it'll come along.